- [Gordon] Tonight, on Hotel Hell,
I'm in Longview, Washington
trying to save one
of the Pacific North West's precious gems,
which has been shamefully neglected.
- Oh my gosh.
- The wealthy hotel owner
has a drinking problem
that is spiralling out of control.
- They want to see the hotel owner jailed.
- Phillip was arrested for DUI.
(police siren)
- [Gordon] 50 devoted staff are desperate
to save their jobs.
- We care about this place,
and we care about you,
but a lot of us feel like you
don't give a damn about us.
- You're calling your staff liars?
- Yeah, I would call them fucking liars.
- [Gordon] Can I get this
hotel back on the waggon
before it's too late?
(upbeat music)
- Longview, Washington,
voted one of America's prettiest towns
is home to Pacific North West
jewel, the Monticello Hotel.
Built in 1923 this historic building
is current celebrating
its 90th anniversary.
But unlike cheese and good wine,
some things do not get better with age.
- [Female Hotel Guest] Oh my gosh.
- I'm Phillip Lovingfoss
and I'm the owner of the Monticello Hotel.
I've wanted to own the hotel
since I was eight years old.
My mother worked here
when I was very young,
and I remember all the cocktail waitresses
and how beautiful they were
and wanted to be a part of it.
- [Gordon] Some might say the story
of how Phillip Lovingfoss
obtained the hotel
is almost too good to be true.
Others might call it a fairytale.
- Phillip was a bartender here,
he fell in love with the
owner Annabelle Juell.
- I was in my early thirties
when Annabelle and I first
started going together
and she was in her mid sixties.
- They were married,
and when Annabelle passed away
all of her assets were given to Phillip.
- He inherited the Monticello Hotel.
- [Gordon] With his inheritance,
Phillip has been living the good life
with his girlfriend and
general manager Ginger,
who is also 30 years his senior.
- TJ.
- But despite the owner's fabulous wealth,
the staff are underpaid.
- I still make minimum wage
and I've been here 12 years.
- Yeah, we're getting a new car.
- Phillip flaunts his
wealth in front of us,
don't flaunt it in our face
when we're all wondering
do we put gas in the car
or do we buy groceries.
- This is fucking unreal.
He's probably got
$150,000 worth of diamonds
on his right arm,
a ten carat diamond
ring on his left finger.
He walked through the kitchen one day
and somebody broke a glass,
and he said "oh did I lose a stone?"
I mean really, how fucking arrogant.
- I wanna say fuck you.
- While Phillip and Ginger have
been enjoying their wealth,
the hotel has been terribly neglected.
- Cigarette burns.
- [Female Hotel Guest] Oh my gosh.
- Even got some gum.
- Seriously, that is so gross.
- All the way down the
hall around the corner.
Inside the beautiful
historic Monticello Hotel,
there are only four suites
and then there are countless
rooms stuffed with Phillip
and Ginger's crap, instead of guests.
- [Gordon] With only four
guest bedrooms available
in the main hotel,
most guests are unwittingly given rooms
in the so called north wing,
which is a characterless 1960's
shoe box motel next door.
- I was hoping to stay in the hotel.
- Don't really even feel
like staying here now.
- [Gordon] And having
been ignored for years,
the hotel is not generating
any new business,
with a rapidly dwindling client base.
- [Female Hotel Guest] Where's
Mary? She's not here with us.
- [Gordon] This once glamorous
hotel has major problems.
But Phillip's problem may be the biggest.
- It is no big secret that Phillip drinks.
- Phillip will come in here drunk.
- Good job, you did a good job.
- In front of all the staff
and it's just an embarrassing mess.
- And I think that Phillip could die
if he doesn't stop drinking.
It scares me.
- [Gordon] The day before
I arrived in Longview,
things reach crisis point.
- I was pulled over, and
they charged me with a DUI.
I was placed under arrest.
They booked me in the Cowlitz County Jail
and yesterday morning I was released.
It's an unfortunate situation.
Thank you, you guys have a good night.
- Thank you.
- [Gordon] This hotel, its staff,
and the community deserve better.
- Phil talked about closing it.
If Gordon isn't able to
save this place for us,
50 people will be out of jobs,
and Phil will be on his
yacht in Seattle drunk.
- Hey Nessa!
- This place is a gem that
needs to be preserved.
It's the heart of Longview.
This town needs the Monticello.
(upbeat music)
- Gorgeous, that place is massive,
and look at all those rooms for guests.
Finally, somewhere nice to stay.
I feel sorry for the
crappy motel next door.
I'm amazed that place is still open,
right next to a big
hotel like that, my god.
Wow, look at those beautiful cars,
there must be a car show on.
Oh no, is somebody having
a laugh, Hotel Hell.
Ladys Nite, who the fuck can't spell.
Part Time Housekeeper,
I can't think of anything
worse to advertise
on the outside of your hotel.
Morning.
- Good morning.
- First name is?
- Vanessa.
- Vanessa, nice to see
you darling, Gordon.
I see you're having a
classic car show today.
- No, those all belong
to our owner, Phillip.
- No, stop.
- They do.
- They belong to the owner?
- Yes, they do.
- What's with the plate,
there's like Hotel Hell
on one of the plates?
- Yes.
- He did that for me?
- I'm not sure if he did
it for you or for him.
- Wow.
- Jeff Dougie, employer
of the month, 2010.
You know it's 2013.
- I do, yes.
- Are the staff that bad,
there hasn't been a more
recent employee of the month?
- Last I hear actually he was in jail.
- Holy crap.
- We have so many great employees,
it's ridiculous that we're not
recognised more than we are.
- Here's your card, and
here is your room code.
You're in room 220.
- Will you show me the way?
- Oh sure if you'd like, shall we?
- Please.
- If you'll follow me.
- I'll get that, we're going outside.
- Yes.
- Okay.
- Just across here.
- So you have to go out
to get back up again?
- Yes.
- And 220 right here.
- But this is not the hotel.
- This is our north wing motel.
- Now why in the fuck would
I want to stay in here?
- All we have available to rent
in the hotel are four suites.
- I'd rather stay in there next door.
- Okay.
- Than in this dump.
- I'm sorry.
- People want to stay in the hotel,
they don't want to stay
in the cracker box.
- Driving up here I didn't
expect to be put in a motel.
- No I understand, and I am sorry.
- All right, it's just right over here.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
- Bloody hell, that sofa is hideous.
Who would use a fucking
brown sofa like that?
Oh my god it gets worse in here.
This bed, is this antique?
- No.
The rooms are furnished
completely with stuff
from Phillip and Ginger's home.
- Oh dear, is the mattress from the house?
- Yes.
- You bring a mattress from
your house into your hotel?
- I wouldn't.
- They charge $250 a
night for that mattress.
I don't even know what to say about it.
When they get new stuff they
bring the old stuff here.
- There's some storage rooms
that are full of old furniture.
- Where are the storage
spaces, where is it?
- Just down the hall.
- Gees, it's like a
suite just full of crap.
It's like a dumping ground.
- There's more too.
- Wow, you are kidding me.
- I'm not.
- Oh my god, look at this.
- I wish I was kidding you.
- This is insane.
It's like a hoarder, just junk everywhere.
I don't understand how the hotel owner
would dump half their shit in hotel rooms
and not rent them out.
- Gordon was pretty appalled
at the state of the storage rooms,
how much crap there was in there.
Just a big fucking waste.
Okay.
- I appreciate it.
- You're very welcome.
- Thank you.
Wow this place is so disappointing.
The biggest highlight
so far is the drive up.
The minute you step
inside it's just, bizarre,
I can't wait to meet the owner
and find out what the hell
is going on in his head.
(upbeat music)
- I've just arrived at
the Monticello Hotel
in Longview, Washington,
and I'm shocked to discover
that there are four rooms
for guests in this grand place,
while others are being used for storage.
Oh my god, it's like a
hoarder, just junk everywhere.
I've got to meet the owner
and the general manager
and figure out what else
is wrong with this place.
- Nice to see you.
- Very nice to see you, welcome
to the Monticello Hotel.
- Thank you, what a gorgeous
place from the outside.
- Gordon.
- How are you?
- Good.
- So, you're Ginger?
- Yes, this is my
significant other, Phillip.
- There you go.
- Is that true?
- It's true.
- Wow, look at that bling,
may I have a quick look,
it looks like a super bowl ring, man.
- Too heavy for me.
- I thought there was a car fare here
until someone told me they're yours.
- They're mine.
- Amazing.
- Let's go into the lounge.
- Did you always want to own a hotel?
- Ever since I was a little
kid I wanted to own this hotel.
- Serious? And what's
the building worth now?
- Between probably $3 and $5 million.
- It's extraordinary.
- I inherited it.
- All the estate?
- Yes.
- And if you don't mind me asking,
what was that to the tune of?
- $10 million.
- Wow. Is the hotel making
money or losing money?
- Its losing money, I've been carrying it.
- How much are you losing?
- $30 to $35,000 a month.
- Losing? So $400,000 a year.
- Yes.
- That's insane.
- There's lots of sleepless nights for me.
- How are we losing so much money.
- Being taken advantage of I know that.
- Who's taking advantage?
- The kitchen staff for sure.
- They wait and bleed the clock.
- To think that you're
going to get paid for hours
that you're not working,
they can't do that to you.
- I know.
- I think Gordon is
gonna have difficulties
with my employees.
I don't see them as team players at all.
- If this place was taken away,
what would it mean to you?
- Devastating.
- It would be equivalent to a death.
- Oh gees.
- I started here in 1973.
This has been a huge part of my life.
- Wow. Well that's given me
insight, let me tell you.
Ginger, nice to see you, darling.
- Very nice.
- Likewise, thank you.
- Thank you, thank you.
- Excellent.
- Gordon, welcome again.
- Thank you so much.
- [Gordon] It's terrible to
hear that Phillip and Ginger
are being taken advantage
of by their staff,
when they clearly care so much.
I really hope I can help them
sort their employees out.
- Oh hello.
- Good evening.
- How are you?
- I'm fine. I'm Debbie.
- Debbie, Gordon, nice to see you.
- I have a table for you right over here.
- Now how long have you been here?
- I have been here 12 years.
- Wow, seriously, 12 years.
- Yes.
- Right, what would you recommend?
- I recommend our crab and artichoke dip.
- Okay, let's go for one of those.
- All right.
- Phillip's triple tower.
- Yes.
- What's that?
- It's a three tiered tower
of three different appetisers.
- And his name big
enough on the menu there?
Obviously suffering
from small man syndrome,
let's go for that.
And then the butternut
ravioli, let's try that.
- All right.
- Thanks Debbie, nice to see you.
- So the appetisers first, please.
- Okay.
- Well, I'm feeling really
nervous about cooking for Gordon.
It's all fucking froze together.
Most of the food is
pre-packaged or canned or frozen
because Ginger and Phillip
are running this place like real misers.
They pinch a penny on every corner.
- This is our crab and artichoke dip,
it's served with deep fried pitta bread.
- And is it fresh crab or canned?
- Frozen Chilean crab.
- Frozen Chilean crab?
- Correct.
- Jesus Christ, fucking snot dip.
I mean, it's like a dish ready
for one of Phillip's
girlfriends, no teeth.
- Oh god.
- It's got a sour taste to
it, I don't know what it is.
No, Jesus, thanks darling.
- You're welcome.
- He felt it tasted sour.
- It's always got that taste
to me, I don't like it.
- You are kidding me, afternoon tea?
- This is the tower.
- Oh my god, holy mackerel,
so, you know it looks like
something you should have
in your fucking garden,
not in your restaurant.
Are those shrimp, are they
fresh or are they frozen?
- They're frozen.
- They're frozen, damn.
- Fucking disgusting.
- And what's in here?
- They're teriyaki beef tips.
- Jesus, that sauce is
hideous, and that's just tough.
Beef tips, its like beef chew.
And that middle one is
another portion of snot dip.
I'll skip that.
- Well unfortunately, for the chef
he doesn't get to dictate his own menu.
- What? The chef doesn't
write his own menu?
- He does not.
- Let's move on, shall we?
My god, careful.
- So Phillip's dictating the menu,
I suppose if his staff can't
be trusted to clock in and out,
they can't be trusted to choose the food.
- Feedback on that?
- The meat is too tough,
the sauce tastes weird.
He can tell it's not homemade.
- Is this Ramsay's?
- And it is, the meat is too tough,
he's getting the full picture
and that's just what I wanted.
- Right.
- I feel very good about it.
I am very disappointed with Dan's food.
It's horrible.
I just hope that Gordon sees
the problems with the staff.
- Ravioli.
- I'm dreading bringing this
dish out to him right now.
The butternut ravioli.
- Thank you. Who made the raviolis?
- I don't know the name
of the manufacturer.
- Manufacturer?
- Correct.
- So, the raviolis
aren't even made either?
- They are not made here.
- Oh Jesus.
- They are packaged.
- That's dreadful, like a
mouthful of sugar every time.
Oh dear. Thank you darling. Wow.
- Frozen crab, frozen
shrimp, pre-packaged ravioli,
it's more like eating at
a badly run old folks home
than a decent restaurant.
- Obviously from a package.
- We all knew that one was coming.
- I think there's a better way
that our kitchen can function
than it's functioning right now.
I see this blatant like what?
- Tell me about Phillip's
management style.
- Well when he's sober I get
along with him just fine.
When he's drinking I
avoid him at all cost.
- Does he drink a lot on site?
- Yes, he does.
- Oh wow.
On a scale of one to ten
how bad is he drinking now?
- A ten.
- A ten?
- This week he was arrested.
- For what?
- DUI.
- You are fucking kidding me?
- I'm not kidding.
- Oh my god Monticello Hotel Owner Jailed.
Jailed?
- He was kept overnight, in jail.
- Bloody hell, why would
he not tell me that,
when it had just happened hours ago?
- Phillip is in denial,
he doesn't take responsibility
for his drinking problem,
and I felt Gordon needed to know.
- Oh shit. The truth is
starting to come out.
Why don't you ask the chef to
come out to the dining room,
I'd like to meet him, and bring
Phillip and Ginger as well.
Thank you.
- He would like to see you
all in the dining room.
- Phew, I'm lost for words.
Chef that was dreadful.
I don't think anything was fresh.
- It takes extra time
to do things homemade.
- Yeah, naturally.
- We're on a time restraint.
- What?
- Ask how many hours they
get in a week or whatever,
and they have got to scrape for hours.
My prep cooks gets 20 hours a week.
- [Gordon] That's not enough
time to make fresh food,
is that why all the food is frozen?
- I mean I get cut carrots
or cut celery in the bag.
I get the boiled eggs
in a bag, done, peeled.
- You buy in boiled eggs?
- Yes.
- I played the safe card and
purchased most of it prepared.
- You played the safe card?
We can't even boil a fucking egg in here.
- Phillip, if you care about
quality you need to pay people
to prep fresh food, not buy it in.
- There were time during
January and February
where I would have 12 - 16 hours a week.
- A week?
- Yeah.
- How do you survive? Three hours a day!
- Not very well believe me.
- Do you have a family?
- Yes I do.
- Dan?
- Seven kids.
- This is insane.
You can't run this hotel like a miser.
If I sold fucking three of those cars
and put it into the
kitchen budget to function
for the next 12 months,
the chefs can do their job.
And speaking of cars, why
didn't you tell me about this?
I'm at the Monticello Hotel
in Longview, Washington.
Oh my god, I want to see
the hotel owner jailed.
Jailed?
And I've just discovered
that the hotel owner
has a drinking problem
so bad that just one day
before I arrived he was
arrested for drunk driving.
Can I have a word with the owner, please?
- Yes.
- What is going on? Truthfully?
- I don't know, Gordon.
- Have you had a drink today?
- No.
- Yes, you have.
Your staff tell me that you
have a drinking problem.
- No.
- And yet you've just been busted for DUI.
Ginger, does your boyfriend
have a drinking problem?
- He does like his libations.
- I'm pissed off that
you couldn't even say,
"Hey Gordon, can I have a word?"
- Gordon, I fully intended to
have a conversation with you.
- You're splashed all over the newspaper.
- I'm aware of that.
- Who owns this place?
- Me.
- So when are you going to step up?
- I'm here Gordon, I'm engaged.
- If you can't be honest
with yourself, you're fucked.
- The facts are starting to become clear.
The problem here isn't
the staff, it's the owner.
- Do you have room service?
- We do not.
- No room service in a hotel this size,
that's not the only unpleasant surprise.
Guests check in, and
just like me they think
they're gonna get a
room in an historic gem,
but instead they're placed in the motel.
- It's disgusting.
- It is disgusting.
I don't think I could shower in this.
Do you want to pick it
out for a different room,
this is awful.
- [Dan] And the fettuccini
alfredos are ready.
- [Gordon] And during dinner service,
most of the guests are over the age of 70.
There clearly hasn't been any buzz
about this place in decades.
- [Phillip] Yes, sir.
- This is not prime rib,
it should be a little moister
than that, shouldn't it?
- Well, I can go and check
and see if there's
another incut back there.
- Dan?
- [Dan] Yes.
- Do we have another incut, a moist one?
- [Dan] Please be juicy. It is.
- Does Phillip normally do this?
- No.
- No, why all of a sudden is he involved?
Because I'm here?
- I'm sorry.
- Strawberry daiquiri.
- I can't believe Phillip
is putting on a show for me.
Well, if you want to know the truth
about a drinker ask the bartender.
Grant, so what is going on tonight,
it's like a comedy or errors here.
- You're welcome.
- Does Phillip normally help you out.
- No.
- No. What does Phillip
normally do at the hotel?
- He does drink quite a bit.
- Wow, and on average a day,
how many drinks would you make a day?
- During the day, sometimes four or five,
and then it jumps into the evening,
it could come up to seven - eight.
- Jesus.
- I had him come up with a new one.
- Oh wow.
- Wow, no wonder things are on the slide
with Phillip drinking that much.
I've got to get him to tell me the truth.
This monstrous hotel has
been running rudderless,
there's no one at the helm,
and you're pretending
all of a sudden I'm busy,
I'm expediting, I'm
lifting because I'm here.
I just-
- No, it's not because you're here.
- You don't normally do this stuff.
- This is what I normally do.
- You're calling your staff liars?
- I would say so,
if they say that I'm not
out here helping them
every time I walk in this building
I would call them fucking liars.
- Come on, be fucking honest with me.
- I am.
- Do you think I just can just
wave a fucking magic wand?
- No.
- When the place is run into the ground.
With dinner service over.
Two seconds.
I'm gonna get Phillip
and his staff together
so I can finally get to the truth.
Is that normal, what I witnessed tonight,
is Phillip always here?
- No.
- Does Phillip always expedite
the fucking hot plate?
- No.
- We need somebody to expedite.
- We're under staffed
and if we get busy then
we can't give good service
and those people will not come back.
A person can't shortcut like that.
- No, look at the size of this place.
The business is being strangled.
- Yeah.
- It's being strangled by the owner,
why were you pretending?
- I'm doing a good job of pretending then.
This is what I do.
- Every time you come in
here this is what you do?
- I do not run down to your bar?
- For the last couple of nights.
- Let's talk about the
elephant in the room, shall we?
- When Phillip's drinking,
he behaves one or two different ways.
Either he's jovial and likes
to giggle and have a good time
or if finances are in arrears
and we hear about how
much everything costs you,
and you are gonna close
the doors, it's stressful.
It's not easy to come to work
with someone threatening us all the time
that the doors are gonna be closed.
Please don't look at me like that Phillip,
because you do do this to us.
- That's bullshit.
- [Gordon] You need to hear the truth.
- You have told us over
and over and over again
that you're just gonna shut the doors.
- I may have said that twice, twice,
but to come in here regularly
and say I'm gonna close the doors.
- If we keep lying about shit
and we keep covering up shit and whatever,
then he ain't going to fucking help us.
And here we go like this,
like we've been going
for seven fucking years.
- He's been known to walk behind the bar
and fix himself drinks after
the staff cuts him off.
- Phillip?
- Yes.
- Is that true?
- That I don't know about.
That I don't know about,
I've gone behind the bar
and made my own drinks, yes.
- So you're blacked out,
you're that inebriated that
you've got no fucking idea
that you're that far gone?
- If he goes behind the bar
take the drink away from him,
he cannot go back there and pour.
- Why is he in there in the first place,
why is he even in that
bar in the first place?
- Why does his staff have to do that,
to me it's hypocritical.
You put out memos saying that
we can't drink in the bar,
its hypocritical, Phillip
and we care about this place,
and we care about you.
But a lot of us feel like you
don't give a damn about us.
- Why are you coming in
here to put your employees
in a bad uncomfortable situation?
- If it was up to me,
I would say Phillip you
can't drink in here,
because if something happens,
you take out a family of four,
they're coming after me and my family.
And I don't have any
money to afford a lawyer,
to keep me out of jail
for the rest of my life.
- [Gordon] I'm at the Monticello Hotel
in Longview, Washington
where the staff are confronting the owner
about his drinking problem.
- If it was up to me,
I'd say Phillip you can't drink in here,
because if something happens,
you take out a family of four,
they're coming after me and my family.
And I don't have any
money to afford a lawyer
to keep me out of jail
for the rest of my life.
- They are telling you the truth
because they freaking care.
Unfortunately, you're
not telling the truth
and that's whey this
business is struggling.
This ship is on a collision course.
- Can I show you something
I think you should all see.
Come with me.
I think everybody has forgotten
what it's like for guests
to stay in this hotel.
Dan, April, how much is this room?
- $250 a night Fridays and Saturdays,
$180 the rest of the week.
- Let me show you what $250
gets you at the Monticello.
I'll turn the lights out.
Can you see that, this blue
light shows up bodily fluids.
That's exactly what you're seeing.
- That's disgusting, I wouldn't
want to lay on that bed.
- Where do these mattresses
come from Phillip?
- The house in Arizona.
- Your house?
- Yes.
- Wow.
- Those two holes there,
that cigarette holes.
- Uh oh.
- Burns. Watch out.
- It's everywhere, don't touch there.
- Oh shit.
- I was totally grossed
out when I'd seen that bed.
It was sickening.
- $250 to sleep in filth.
Oh my god.
Phillip's semen right
there, it is everywhere.
Does that make anybody else feel sick,
because right now I am fucking disgusted
by this foul polluted bed.
- I felt dirty. I'm a clean
person, it was disgusting.
- I don't know why you're running a hotel.
You're just ripping people off.
If you don't care for the customers
and you don't care for your
staff, who do you care for?
- I care about my staff.
- The first thing you said
to me when I arrived here,
Phillip, what's the problem?
Staff.
They're bleeding the clock.
- No way.
- That's what you told me.
- I've got half of it written down at home
where I put at least
100 hours free in here.
We will come in an hour, two
hours early, not punch in
and then we will work late, to
get what we need to get done.
- You have an estate to the tune
of 10 fucking million dollars,
and a chef that puts 100
hours in for nothing,
or is he lying?
- He's not lying, he's here all the time.
- I'm surprised you guys are here.
- I'm the only earner for my family,
and I make $500 bucks every two weeks.
- This is fucking crazy.
And you rock up here with
a plate with Hotel Hell,
what the fuck is going on?
These guys are your bread and butter,
your fucking backbone,
but they're terrified
to tell you the truth.
You can't keep on cutting
corners and humiliating them
because they're the problem,
the fact that it's not busy, look within.
It starts from the fucking top.
- Amen.
- Yeah.
- Could you just excuse me,
and leave me in here on my
own with Phillip, thank you.
Now can you fucking man up?
- I don't have all the
answers Gordon, I'm trying.
- Give me one fucking
answer, give me something.
You're abusing your staff.
What kind of message does it send to them
when you fill the car
park with classic cars
and they're fucking struggling?
Do you think it's fair?
- Do I think it's fair, no.
- No. Do they deserve better?
- Of course.
- Why are you doing it?
- I don't have an answer for that.
I don't know why I'm doing that.
- Get out Phillip, leave me alone.
Get the fuck out of here.
(bright upbeat music)
That was rough.
Sleeping in a tub is bloody uncomfortable,
but it certainly beats sleeping
on that filthy mattress.
Oh what?
The staff have been as
honest as they can be,
but they're all afraid
of losing their jobs.
Both of you, come with me, please.
It's time Phillip and
Ginger heard from the people
who aren't afraid to tell them the truth.
Good morning, everybody.
- [All] Morning, morning.
- Thank you so much for coming.
Your guests are gonna give
you some honest feedback.
- Our room was dirty.
It looked like an animal was
killed and drug out the room,
and the stain goes down the hall.
- There is no thought to
the guest experience at all.
You feel like you threw
your money down the drain.
- I was so disappointed to know
that I couldn't stay in a piece of history
and got sent over to a motel.
- I was shocked at the decor that I saw,
it was just hideous.
- It was brutal to hear
that many guests complain
about a one night experience in the hotel.
- It actually scares you
away when you see the marquee
that says "Thur Ladys Nite and
Hiring Par Time Housekeeper"
- You don't want to advertise
that you're short on housekeeping.
- Whose stupid idea was it to advertise
for a part time housekeeper.
- I guess it's my idea,
I'll take the responsibility for that.
- Thank you.
- Can I ask you all one question,
would you come back and stay
here, please raise your hands.
- No, never.
- Never? I appreciate your honesty.
- Thank you, thanks.
- You heard what the guests had to say.
- I did.
- Do me a favour, spend
a couple of minutes here
looking at what you've
inherited and ask yourself,
do you really want it enough,
do you really care enough?
- Yes, I do care.
- I don't think you do.
- Owner Phillip and
general manager, Ginger
have just found out what
the guests really think
about the Monticello Hotel.
Would you come back and stay here?
- No, never.
I think Ginger has finally realised
how much Phillip's drinking
is hurting the hotel.
And now she's asked to speak to me alone.
- It's been hard.
Because it's deep, his
alcoholism is very deep.
- I can see it's been hard.
- I've reached out to my children,
and they've all talked to him,
but it hasn't done any good.
And it's getting worse.
The stress on my end has been
where is he at, is he driving,
is he gonna kill somebody,
is he gonna kill himself?
- I just wish you'd me
the truth, that's all.
- I am a private person,
and this has been very hard.
It's hard to see someone
destroy themselves.
I don't know if he realises how bad it is.
It's been a very heavy burden on me.
He's very ill, it's a terrible disease.
- He's an ill man and you're
suffering the consequences.
He needs help.
- And that's the truth.
- I'm gonna persuade him to get treatment.
- Oh god, would you do that for me?
- I will do that. I want
this place to work, okay?
- Thank you.
- Come here.
- And I'm sorry.
- I'm going to need the staff's help
to get through to Phillip.
- Come through guys.
- Maybe together we can
break through his denial.
- I'm gonna get Phillip in now,
and I need you to get behind
agreeing that he needs help.
I know it's hard, but
you're part of this change,
and you stand up for
what you feel is right.
- The staff needs him to show us
that he's willing to make a change.
I think he needs to become
honest with himself.
- This hotel is at breaking
point, and you need help.
Is there anyone else in this room
that thinks that Phillip
needs help with his addiction,
please raise your hand?
- They're all here because each
and every one of them care,
not just about the hotel, but about you.
Ginger, you know how bad
the drinking problem is.
- Yes, I do.
I pour out bottles, I empty
them out, down the sink,
because I love him and I hate
to see him destroy himself,
and that's what it's been
like, it's been very hard.
- If you could see it through our eyes,
it's like night and day.
If you're in the day you're
just, you're amazing Phillip.
You talk to us with so much
respect and stuff like that
and as soon as you start
drinking you can see
that huge difference come over you.
It's like a black cloud.
We really care about you, Phillip.
- I mean we're afraid for you
because your rock bottom
isn't going to be like most
because you have the
money to pay your way out.
You have the money to do what you do.
Your rock bottom is
going to be very serious,
it's either going to kill
you or kill somebody else.
I don't wanna see you die,
and I don't wanna see you in
trouble and hurt somebody.
You're very important,
your worth getting clean,
you're so worth it.
- Okay.
- Phillip, will you get help?
You cannot keep on hiding this.
- I don't know what you
want me to say, Gordon.
- What about what you want to say?
- I'm not saying anything. We're done.
- If the entire staff can't
get through to Phillip,
maybe speaking to him alone
will help change his mind,
he's got to get help,
otherwise, this place
doesn't stand a chance.
When are you gonna snap
inside and say fuck,
I'm hitting rock bottom?
- I've been in this position
for the past several years.
- I'm sorry to hear that.
Don't get upset. Don't get upset.
- It's all part of it.
- So what do you wanna do, Phillip?
Are you ready to get help? Please.
- I promise you. I'm definitely going.
For my family, for my staff
I'm going into treatment.
- I appreciate that. Come here.
- It's time.
- Some things in life are
more important than business
and I'm glad Phillip has realised
he has to put his health first
and sort out his problems.
Coming up, welcome to the new
and improved Monticello Hotel.
Change is in the air at
the Monticello Hotel,
so overnight my design team
give the hotel the makeover
it truly deserves.
- Good morning.
- Welcome to the new and
improved Monticello Hotel.
Before we go inside, I want
you to notice something.
That dreadful motel sign has disappeared.
When people want to make a booking,
you can offer them a
choice of the modern annex
or the historic hotel.
And that will be a lot easier
because I've opened up
four new suites for guests,
doubling the number of rooms
in this historic hotel.
- Oh yes. Let's go guys, come on in.
- [Debbie] Let's do it.
- I have butterflies, I am so
excited to walk in that hotel.
- Come on, jump in ladies.
- Boy oh boy.
- [Gordon] Welcome to your new suite.
Isn't it beautiful?
- Wow.
- [April] I love it, oh god.
- This is a beautiful room
that should be used for
guests, not storage.
- Never in my wildest dreams
did I think our storage unit
could end looking like this.
- Are you ready to see the bedroom?
- That's so cool. I don't even have words.
- Gone is all that second hand furniture,
replaced by a comfortable
bed with luxurious linens.
Now we have something to be proud of.
I mean the place is absolutely gorgeous.
Stunning new furniture,
beautiful linens and beds
for all your suites.
- Very classy.
It's mind blowing, what Gordon
has done is just phenomenal.
- What do you think?
- I think that this is a room
that I can be proud to send my guests to.
- Oh my goodness me, wonderful.
- They're never gonna want to leave.
- No.
- I'd like to show you my room.
- Oh my gosh, it's amazing.
- For me the stunning interior
matches the majestic exterior.
Now you look from the outside
you think this is exactly the
kind of feel you want inside.
Have a quick look at the bedroom.
This one you're going to love.
- [Phillip] Oh boy.
- And the bed.
As you know with the
mattress full of stains,
now look at that beautiful bed,
that's what you call a
proper king size bed.
- Oh wow, it was our best room before
and now it's the best room in town.
It's beautiful.
- Come through guys. The
potential here is phenomenal.
- It's the heart of the town again.
- And something to be proud of.
Oh, excuse me.
Welcome to Monticello's
stunning new room service.
How can a hotel of this standard
not have a small dynamic
room service menu?
It increases the turnover on every check,
but more importantly
guests stay actually longer
if they know the food is that
good in the room as well.
Now get yourselves a
plate and start tasting.
- [Vanessa] This is so good.
- Those au gratin potatoes.
- There's nothing like fresh salmon.
That food was amazing.
I can't recall the last
time I tasted food so fresh.
- I think it's gonna be a real bonus.
- Enjoy the rest of the food,
we've got a big, big tonight ahead of us.
- It's a really nice menu,
I think it's gonna bring
the revenue higher,
this is exactly what we needed.
- This is sensational, beyond.
- It's not just room service.
I reinvented the menu
for the restaurant too,
using the best local ingredients.
I'm confident the
combination of great food
and great rooms will encourage
a whole new generation to come here.
- That's medium in there, needs
about another minute or two,
and then we'll pump that one out, okay?
The difference between the frozen
and the food we're
getting no, night and day.
It is indescribable, from
the taste, the presentation,
it's awesome.
- Keep cooking with fresh ingredients.
- I will.
- And remember this, the day
a kitchen can't be bothered
to boil a fucking egg
yeah, get out of there.
Okay, you're better than that.
- Yes, sir.
- Good job.
- Thank you.
- Well done, thank you.
- Are you checking in?
- Yes.
- Can I get your name?
- Sorrell.
- Oh, you're staying in
one of our new suites.
I can't wait for people
to see these rooms.
- Oh, wow.
- And I'm ecstatic,
I'm gonna have so many less
guests out to the motel.
- This is what I had hope for.
- Although the guests are
delighted with the changes,
it looks like Chef Dan has a problem.
- A quick word.
- What's wrong. Oh no you're leaving.
- The Monticello's re-launch
is going brilliantly.
Nice to see you.
- Gordon.
- Are you okay?
- But Chef Dan has just pulled me aside.
- No, let's go here.
Take a seat, what's the matter?
- Nine years clean and sober.
- Wow, that's phenomenal. Well done.
- So, I would love to be his
sponsors, Phillip's sponsor,
if he would have be his
sponsor, once he gets out,
he's going to need somebody by his side.
- That's an amazing commitment.
- It's a real big responsibility
to be Phillip's sponsor.
I mean it's one I'm willing to take own
and get our owner on the right track.
- Yeah, good job, thank you.
It's going to be a challenging
journey for Phillip,
but with all the support he
has from Ginger and his staff,
I'm hoping he'll be able
to stay away from alcohol.
- So, when you get out of treatment
you're going to need a sponsor,
somebody to take you to meetings,
so nine years, clean and sober.
If you want my offer.
- Thank you Dan, I appreciate that.
- Sound good?
- It does.
- Now with new life breathed
into the Monticello,
it's time for me to go.
- Both of you, take care
of yourselves, okay.
Good luck.
- Thank you, sir.
- Seriously, good luck.
Oh dear, next time I see you,
you're going to be a changed man.
- Oh yes, I will.
- One more thing before I go,
what makes this place very special
is not just that it's a historic
building in its 90th year,
for me it's the staff.
So just so you don't forget
it, here we are, a new plague.
- Wonderful.
- And the employees of
the month this month
are the entire staff.
And you need to do more
than just recognise
how good they are, you
need to pay them properly.
- Yep.
- Ramsey did a wonderful job.
The hotel is flowing
in the right direction,
because I do have a good crew
to turn the ship back around
and make it thrive.
And I'm going to seek
help for my drinking.
- Thank you Gordon.
(bright upbeat music)
- Wow, what a place.
I really hope Phillip keeps his promises.
Time will tell.
Since my visit to the Monticello Hotel,
bookings have gone up.
- This is really nice. Cosy?
- [Gordon] And with all
the new revenue coming in,
the staff are working with
a new sense of enthusiasm
because Phillip is finally
paying them properly
for all the hours they put in.
- Gordon, I wanna thank
you for what you did.
You saved 50 people's
jobs and their livelihoods
and their families.
- [Gordon] And Phillip is booked
into a treatment programme
which starts next week.
- All I can say for Gordon is,
God bless you and thank you.
- [Voiceover] One Potato, Two Potato.
- [Dan] Please be juicy.